---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

This week, I read numerous research papers to expand upon my understanding of quantum computing and the current benchmarking suites that exist. I also downloaded the software necessary to develop and benchmark various quantum circuits.

I first read Teague J. Tomesh’s dissertation entitled Co-Designing Quantum Computer Architectures and Algorithms to Bridge the Quantum Resource Gap. This dissertation explains the development and applications of the SupermarQ benchmarking suite. I noted each aspect of the suite’s design as characteristics to keep in mind during my evaluation of various quantum benchmarking systems. I also noted each element of the feature vectors that he utilizes, and I found the concept of program communication, as well as the “degree” of a qubit, especially interesting. This paper neatly demonstrated that quantum computing has a preference for different architectures depending on the specific application. It gave cross-platform comparisons for practical applications, and provided examples of times when a superconducting quantum computer functions more efficiently than a trapped ion quantum computer and vice versa.

I then moved on to reading the official SupermarQ documentation before diving into the code itself. This suite emphasises the idea that single-number metrics are far less effective than an entire suite of benchmarks in quantifying performance across multiple realistic applications. I have now downloaded both Qiskit, a software platform for work on utility-scale quantum computers, as well as the SupermarQ software.

At the end of the week, I dove into a recent release from Quantinuum entitled The Computational Power of Random Quantum Circuits in Arbitraty Geometries, which details the ability of their new H2 quantum computer to operate on up to 56 qubits with arbitrary connectivity and 99.843% two-qubit gate fidelity. I found this paper fascinating, and look forward to reading more releases in the upcoming weeks.
